as the death toll in Gaza Rises so does
the toll on Palestinian journalists in
its annual report the committee to
protect journalists said 99 journalists
and media workers worldwide were killed
while doing their job last year they
include 72 Palestinian journalists
killed by Israeli forces that's nearly
75% of the worldwide total last year was
the highest number of recorded deaths of
journalists since 2015 and the period
with most fatalities since the
organization began documenting them in
1992 and even when they're not on the
job Palestinian journalists living in
Gaza face the risk of Israeli
bombardment the Gaza media office says
at least 126 Palestinian media workers
have been killed since Israel's War
Began journalists working in Conflict
areas are protected under International
humanitarian law Palestinian journalists
accuse Israel of repeatedly violating
that law and of killing colleagues who
are telling the world what's happening
in Gaza well we can now speak to jod
Ginsburg from New York who's the
president of the committee to protect
journalists thanks for your time with us
on Al jazer so as I just read out uh
your your report uh the statistic is is
that more than three4 of the 99
journalists and media workers who died
worldwide in 2023 were killed in
Israel's war on Gaza I mean this is a
very very depressing statistic and
really illustrates how deadly this war
has been on journalists and particularly
Palestinian
journalists absolutely this war is
unprecedented in terms of the threat to
journalists we documented 77 journalists
killed in the Israel Gaza War 72 of
those are Palestinians and what's
important to remember about this
particular war is that Gaza and
journalists are the only journalists
able to report on what's Happening
inside Gaza International journalists
have not been able to get in they've not
been allowed in except on very very
controlled um trips that are overseen by
the Israeli Army so we are entirely
reliant on those journalists who are
risking their lives to bring us this
story and um in your mind is there any
uh doubt that journalists are being
targeted in this
war we're investigating at least a dozen
cases where we think that journalists
have been deliberately targeted we've
seen the case for example of Isam abdah
the reuter journalist who was killed on
the Lebanese border there have been a
number of independent reports indicating
that he was clearly wearing uh uh he was
clearly wearing press Insignia he was
with other journalists in an area known
to be an area where journalists operate
um and yet was targeted by Israeli uh by
an Israeli strike and and there are a
number of other cases that we're looking
into as you were just saying the the Vas
majority of the journalists 72 uh were
killed in in the Israeli attacks on Gaza
look there's been a lot of criticism
sort of over double standards do you
think that the global reaction would
have been different the outrage would
have been a little bit more if um these
were Western journalists for
example Israel has long been one of the
most divisive uh divisive countries to
cover I've been a journalist for 25
years and and that's long been
the the country the the issue that has
divided International media
International politicians more than
anything um so it's S unsurprising I
think that we've seen a hesitancy to
come out publicly in support of our
journalist colleagues in Gaza who are
doing work that the International
journalistic Community is entirely
reliant on to bring it the information
uh to bring the public public
information about the war inside Gaza so
as the president of the committee to
protect journalists are you disappointed
that there have it been more calls
louder calls of enough is enough of the
killing of these journalists and as
you're saying in some cases the
targeting of
them I am disappointed frankly at the
lack of public solidarity that we've
seen I think it's really important that
we let our colleagues inside Gaza but
also in the region know that we stand
with them that we're there to support
them so that we can make sure that that
the Press freedom and journalists are
protected not just at this moment at
this crucial moment in Gaza but also
globally at a time when journalists are
under threat everywhere what can more
can organizations like yours do I mean
the the I know that you've said that the
cpj has raised concerns about the
apparent targeting of members of the
media by by Israeli forces besides uh
raising concerns I mean what more needs
to be done now what type of action needs
to be
taken well it's very important that
these killings are thoroughly
investigated and that those responsible
are held accountable we're still in the
middle of a war so we don't expect those
investigations to take place now we're
pushing for international mechanisms to
make sure that those are properly
investigated uh we can use mechanisms
including icj the international uh the
ICC um un bodies there are a number of
bodies that we can use to push for this
um unfortunately Justice takes a long
time and we don't expect that to be to
happen immediately but we continue to do
the work of documenting the painstaking
work of documenting that will hopefully
provide the evidence that can be used
when these cases uh are fully brought to
investigations all right Jody Ginsburg
thank you for joining us from New
York thank you